Now that we learned about resources and so on, it's also time to learn about how we can make our URL
more flexible let's say. For example here, right now we always have data.json hardcoded in here,
now what if we wanted to replace this dynamically? Then we could simply wrap it in curly braces and
name it node for example
and now this is a variable
we can replace. I'll leave everything as it is here,
the URL I set up here will override it for the saving action
but now for getting, well maybe I want to get it from the alternative or the data node,
so it would be nice if I could exchange this.
Therefore I will add a new input field above my Get Data button, input type form, class form control, type
text of course and then some line breaks to separate it from the button
and then here, I want to bind with v-model to a node property which I'll of course add here and which should
be data by default.
Now I want the user to be able to enter any node here
and of course only if it exists
will the http request then be sent to this endpoint and fetch the data from there.
So to achieve this, we somehow need to change the way we fetch our data and make this more flexible,
now I will use a resource for this again.
So here all I will do is I will say get data
for example, this shall have a method of get and now vue resource generally supports the set up of your
URLs as templates,
so with flexible parts like this here. If you want to learn more,
again a great start is on the vue resource
github page and then there under, on the root page actually, you will find this URI templates link
which will take you to this page here which basically describes this URI template standard which explains
you how you can set up flexible pieces in your URLs which may be exchanged and all of the features
described here will work with vue resource.
Now we're using these symbols use case here where we simply have a variable thing in the URL
which we can exchange for some real data,
so this case here on the documentation here
but more interesting, this case here in our code,
so we need to replace this node variable dynamically.
Now we can do this.
I'm going to replace my http request here in fetch data
and instead I now also want to use this resource and now it's get data, in this new resource I just set
up.
Now get data doesn't have its own URL so it uses the default URL and you could have used
this with
this http get request as well,
just as a side node but here in this resource URL we set up for all resources, we do have
a flexible piece in our URL, node.
Now we can override this by simply passing an object as the first argument where we then specify each
variable we do have in our
URL, so node for example as a key and then as a value, the value which should really be entered
in the URL
once it is sent. This is here, this node referring to our node property where we store the user input.
So what this will do is it will take our URL down there and replace the node key with this value
we set up here
and if we would have multiple pieces here like with a slash and then another piece, then we could
simply add another here and replace this too and so on
and you can again consult the page I showed you before to learn more about how you can structure this
and which operators and so on you have in your toolset.
So this will now replace this node part
here with this value we pass here and then we could also pass other arguments but we don't need to, it's
a get request so that looks fine.
Now of course we here again want to use then
and basically I want to use the same code as before
so I'm just going to copy that because that code will work fine and all I need to do is uncomment this of
course. And with this in place, this should now work well,
it's the same functionality as before but now with our own resource which has the great advantage of
being flexible.
So let me reload the page and get the data
and we see it worked when we fetched it from data.
Now let's fetch it from the alternative node by entering alternative in here, looks good.
And this is where I want to conclude this section because now, we really learned a lot
and this is the final piece with you having the ability to exchange pieces in the URL
you are sending your request to.